# CS163-3
This is a program that is designed to create a hash table using chaining. The hash table is going to store information about housing in Portland. An example of what data it will hold is: location, size, number of bedrooms and the distance from PSU. An example of why this would be helpful is with with the fact that there is a lot of options for someone to choose when choosing where to live. The easiest way to find out this information would be to search by the location. But, the easiest way to find all of this information would to have a file to draw information from and search. Because using google for everything can be a pain, and if you have the time it makes it easy. I will be creating an external Data file to store all of the information into. After I have finished inputting in each category of data I will place a delimiter in between the information and then a new line at the end of the last field so that it is easier to read in the information to the program. I will be implementing functions to add a new housing option; which I am planning to also write out the information to a new file at the end, so that the user can see what has changed in the list if they would like. I will also be implementing a search function that will search for a particular matching key. I will implement a remove function that will remove the information about a particular housing option that is beyond the number of miles that is passed in through an argument. This amount of miles will be sent in by the user so that they can limit the amount of houses or apartments that show up for them to look at. I will display all matches for a matching key that will use the retrieve function. For example if I am trying to find all of the houses in Portland it will display all of the houses in Portland. I will have a display all function that will not be in order, so it will look like a mess. I am going to have my table sizes be two different sizes when I am testing my program. I am going to start with 5 and then 10, so that the information could be tested separately. All of
these functions will be integer type functions because I am the most comfortable with integer type functions, and the return types will be as follows: return 0 for false, return 1 for true. Depending on if there is a recursive function or not there may be a third return called return 2 which will end the recursive call. Obviously I am creating a hash table for my main data structure but my node structure will be attached to a class so that I can create functions to read in the data that work well. My hash function is going to try to be created well so that I can get it to work, and I am not going to use return 0; which technically could be a hash function but a very bad one at that. Before lab 6 I still could not wrap my head around the hash function part about the hash table, but I learned that a hash function is basically a function to use recursively when you are inserting or removing, or searching. It finds an array index and I think that that is pretty cool. I am also looking forwards to how I am going to create the client program, and I am hoping that if I have time that I can polish the client program a little bit.
